" Supportive, Processing, Not Silent, Not Absent. " - By Brian Moses

	If you've ever worked on a car or a computer, you know there are two types of approaches. 
	You can either just replace the part you think is the problem and hope it fixes it or you
	approach the situation with, let me figure out *why* this failed, how it connects, and is
	there a better way to fix or prevent this failure?
	
	[Slight Pause]
	I've always been the person who takes the second approach.
	
	I don't like guessing and throwing new parts around, it's not cost effective. I like understanding
	how things work, how they are connected, and what the most efficient solution is, not just the quickest solution.
	
	I have been taking a few assessments in self evaluation recently and I have began to make discoveries about myself.
	The Toastmasters communication style assessment told me that I am a Supportive communicator, followed up by Analytical
	and Intiating as my secondary styles.
	
	It caught me off guard but after thinking about it, it makes so much sense, this mindset is applied in almost everything I do.
	
	[Slight Pause]
	Not too long ago, I was in a team discussion where everyone had strong opinions about how we should proceed forward on a project.
	Everyone was talking over each other with their own ideas, but not me. I listened, I processed what others were saying, I analyzed
	everyone's trying to form connections everyone had with each other so I could propse an idea that would lead us into a common direction.
	I was running a diagnostics scan while everyone else was trying to drive the proverbial car. By the time I formed a plan and overall logical
	decision, the group picked a direction only to hit a roadblock about 20 minutes later.
	
	[Pause]
	
	That moment stuck with me. Not because of how disorganized it was, but because I realized something about how I naturally communicate.
	
	Everything started to come together with the communication style assessment. In group discussions I tend to be calm, patient, and focused on understanding before responding.
	Being Supportive isn't just about being agreeable, it's how I think. My analytical side wants to know and understand the why, the how, and the why not and due to that I can
	come off as indecisive, relaxed, or even avoiding change or avoiding conflict when these are not always the case.
	
	All of this fits into the multiple facets of my life. I try to understand not just what's happening but why and how it's happening. This is a great processing skillset to use while
	trying to troubleshoot problems. I apply this to not only my career by my home life too... and that's where the downsides start to show. It does help me to be thoughtful and thorough
	it can also slow me down in decision making processes.
	
	Sometimes I wait too long to speak up, I want more data, more perspectives...
	
	So I wait... and I wait... just a little too long sometimes and that's where my communication weakness shows through, I'm not always direct. I don't always jump in with the " Hey, here
	is what we are doing. " and instead you're more likely to get the " Let's make sure we understand everything before we decide what we're doing. " from me.
	
	[Pause]
	
	I'm starting to learn where I need to develop to show up better for my teammates and my family. Being Supportive doesn't mean staying quiet and agreeing on everything. Sometimes
	the most supportive thing you can do is speak up. Ask the question no one else is asking, don't be afraid to point out something that will cause an issue later down the line, even
	if you don't have the entire answer yet.
	
	In conclusion, I'm seeking a better balance. What I am doing now is simple, keep the mindset of understanding the why and the why not, taking initiative at times without having the
	full answer, and being more supportive in a fully present state for my career but most importantly for my family.
	
	[Pause]
	
	A very wise man said himself, " In any moment of decision, the best thing you can do is the right thing. The worst thing you can do is nothing. " 
	- Theodore The Bullmoose Roosevelt.
	
	Thank you.